# A New Start {#newproject}

Now, let's set up the basic structure, used by any given LightFrame
project. There are two methods listed: using LightFrame's scripts or
FTP. If you do have shell access to the server, but don't have PHP CLI
at your disposal, you shouldn't have too much trouble understanding what
needs to be done, by reading both methods, and combining them suitably.

*[CLI]: Command Line Interface

## Creating Project Files {#newproject_files}

We'll start by getting the core files up and running for your project.
These files need to be present at each and every project. Once they are
set up, they're set, and hardly ever need further adjustment later on.

### The Script Way {#newproject_files_script}

_The scripts are currently very rough around the edges and some commands
don't even work anymore. Some script commands are planned to be moved
into their own branches, until polished to completion._

Open a console to your server (either via SSH or just a new terminal
window). For this example, let's do a new project under your user's web
directory, so you'll probably want to start with

    $ cd ~/public_html/
    $ mkdir testproject
    $ cd testproject
    
Assuming you have LightFrame's scripts in your `$PATH`, as instructed
previously, you can now write a simple command to get template files for
a new project:

    $ lf_setup.php startproject

You should get output like

    > htaccess > /home/henrikpaul/public_html/testproject
    > index.php > /home/henrikpaul/public_html/testproject
    > settings.php > /home/henrikpaul/public_html/testproject
    > urls.php > /home/henrikpaul/public_html/testproject

For now, you need to manually rename the `.htaccess`-file so that Apache
recognizes it.

    $ mv htaccess .htaccess

### Using FTP {#newproject_files_ftp}

There's no point in transferring files over just yet, because we need to
edit some files first. Instead, create a new directory in your local
computer (on a Windows machine, the "My Documents" folder is good a
place as any &ndash; users of Linux might enjoy using the user's home
directory), and call it e.g. "testproject".

Find out where you have LightFrame (if you have downloaded a compressed
archive, now would be a good time to extract it), and go to the
`scripts/projectfiles/` subdirectory, where you'll find the following
files: `htaccess`, `index.php`, `settings.php` and `urls.php`. 

Copy all four files to the directory you just created and then rename
`htaccess` to `.htaccess`.

## Basic Project Configuration {#newproject_script_conf}



# Testing It {#test}

At this point, it might be good to check that everything's set up
properly &ndash; just to make sure.