# Caveats {#caveats}

There are a few things you should know about LightFrame when evaluating
it and trying it out. While LightFrame does some things well, there
other uses where LightFrame isn't the best choice around.

# What LightFrame Does Not {#doesnt}

It would be just stupid and na√Øve to claim that LightFrame doesn't have
its share of weaknesses. There's no point in hiding them, because they become
apparent pretty soon. Here's some of the biggest ones:

## Speed Up Your Site {#doesnt_speedup}

LightFrame is a general framework. It doesn't have any special target
problem domains, to which it would be best suited for. It's designed to
work with most (or even "any") websites and web applications. This means
that LightFrame probably has code that you will never use. But they
still put a strain on the total page load.

It is strongly not recommended to use LightFrame in any service that
requires high responsiveness or high availability. Don't even think on
implementing something that involves lives with LightFrame!

## Consider Itself Enterprisey {#doesnt_enterprise}

We have an emphasis on making the development with LightFrame fast and
fun. Because of this, rigorousness and 'correctness' take the hits. We'd
like to point out, however, that we make a separation between _correct_
and _right_ &ndash; while _correct_ is proven to be _right_, _right_ is
just the expected outcome.

The API of LightFrame is bound to change rapidly. What is written now,
will most probably not work in a year with the latest version of
LightFrame. If you want the newest and the sweetest, you need to rewrite
your code, at least partly.

*[API]:Application Programming Interface

## Evolve Fast {#doesnt_evolvefast}

LightFrame doesn't have as many active developers as it would have use
of. The development doesn't include any business model or any kind of
revenue at all, so all written code is being donated out of the
developer's own free time, alongside normal daily routines (like working
and doing that 'living' stuff).

The product _does_ evolve, mind you. It's not as rapid as other products.

# What LightFrame Does {#does}

But not everything is glum. To balance things out, here are the things
that we are most proud of about LightFrame. They might also give some
insight when evaluating LightFrame as the framework of your choice.

## Just Works on Most Webhosts {#does_work}

## Forces You To Write Clean(er) Code {#does_clean}

Because of its UMTV-separation `[ <-- insert link to glossary#umtv here]`

*[UMTV]: URLs, Models, Templates, Views